Update Documentation to Focus on `LateLintPass` (#9426)
rust-lang/rust-clippy: book/src/development/define_lints.md

# Define New Lints

> The journey of any new Clippy lint begins with one step.
> And this first step is to define the lint and register it to the codebase.

Reviewer: I like this style of telling a story :) Though I would suggest collapsing these sentences:

```suggestion
The first step in the journey of a new lint is to define the definition and registration of the lint in Clippy's codebase.
```

We can use the Clippy dev tools to handle this step since setting up the 
lint involves some boilerplate code.

## Name the Lint

A wise software engineer once said:

> > There are only two hard things in Computer Science: cache invalidation and naming things.

Reviewer 2: You forgot "...and off by one errors." 😁

Author: I'm using his son's blog haha: https://www.karlton.org/2017/12/naming-things-hard/

Naming a lint is no exception.
Therefore, in case of uncertainty about if the name you chose fits the lint,

> please consult our [lint naming guidelines][lint_naming] or ask a maintainer

Reviewer: > ask a maintainer

This is a good suggestion. In the general contribution docs, I would add a note that it's better to ping a [Clippy team member](https://www.rust-lang.org/governance/teams/dev-tools#Clippy%20team) directly. As questions in issues are sometimes overlooked. (This is not ideal, but sadly the truth, as reviewing every comment is very time consuming)

> on the corresponding Github issue or our Zulip chat.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on the corresponding Github issue or our [Zulip] chat.
```

...

```md
[Zulip]: https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/257328-clippy
```

the lint pass in question will not be run.

One reason that `cargo dev update_lints` does not automate this step is that
multiple lints might use the same lint pass, so registering the lint pass may
have already been done when adding a new lint.

Another reason for not automating this step is that the order
that the passes are registered determines the order the passes actually run,
which in turn affects the order that any emitted lints are output in.

## Lint groups

As of the writing of this documentation update, there are 11 categories (a.k.a. _types_)
of lints besides the numerous standalone lints living under `clippy_lints/src/`:

- `cargo`
- `casts`
- `functions`
- `loops`
- `matches`
- `methods`
- `misc_early`
- `operators`
- `transmute`
- `types`
- `unit_types`

These categories group together lints that share some common behaviors.
For instance, as we have mentioned earlier, `functions` groups together lints
that deal with some aspects of function calls in Rust.

Some other common categories are `loops` and `methods`. `loops` group is for
lints that involve `for` loops, `while` loops, `range` loops, etc.

> `methods` group is for lints that are method calls.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`methods` group is for lints that target method calls.
```

Naming a lint is no exception.
Therefore, in case of uncertainty about if the name you chose fits the lint,
please consult our [lint naming guidelines][lint_naming] or ask a maintainer
on the corresponding Github issue or our Zulip chat.

For now, let's imagine that your fellow developers at work tend to define some of their
functions with the name `foo` and forget to re-name it to a more meaningful name
when they submit a pull request.

`foo` is a highly non-descriptive name for a function, so we want to detect this
bad naming and fix it early on in the development process.

For this, we will create a lint that detects these `foo` functions and
help our fellow developers correct this bad practice. Note that in Clippy,
lints are generally written in snake cases.
We can name this new lint `foo_functions`.

## Add and Register the Lint

Now that a name is chosen, we shall register `foo_functions` as a lint to the codebase.
There are two ways to register a lint.

### Standalone

If you believe that this new lint is a standalone lint, you can run the following
command in your Clippy project:

```sh

> $ cargo dev new_lint --name=foo_functions --pass=early --category=pedantic

Reviewer: While this lint can be implemented as an early lint, I feel like this should suggest using the late pass, as some newcomers might just copy and paste it. :thinking:

```

Note that if not provided, the `category` of this new lint will default to `nursery`.
See Clippy's [lint groups](../lints.md) for more information on categories.

The `cargo dev new_lint` command will create a new file: `clippy_lints/src/foo_functions.rs`

> as well as [register the lint](#lint-registration).

Reviewer: It will actually also create a test file in `tests/ui/foo_functions.stderr`

Author: I ran the command and I think it only generates `tests/ui/foo_functions.rs` 🤔

Reviewer: Sorry, that's what I meant, but this is only referencing the rs file :upside_down_face:

Overall, you should notice that the following files are modified or created:

> ```sh

Reviewer: I like this :+1:

> # Define New Lints

Reviewer 3: I would structure this section like this:

```
## Lint Name

## Add and Register Lint

### Automated

Add explanation for `cargo dev new_lint` once here.

#### Special Lint Types

Explain just the `--type` flag. Link to the `Lint Types` section.

#### Still To Do

List what still has to be done to finish the lint definition

- Documentation (link to documentation chapter)
- short description
- ??? // Anything else here? 

### Manual

Put each step here and add an explanation to it that is as short as possible

## Lint Types

We can use the Clippy dev tools to handle this step since setting up the 
lint involves some boilerplate code.

## Name the Lint

A wise software engineer Phil Karlton once said:
> There are only two hard things in Computer Science: cache invalidation and naming things.

Naming a lint is no exception.
Therefore, in case of uncertainty about if the name you chose fits the lint,
please do the following:

1. Consult our [lint naming guidelines][lint_naming]
2. Ping a [Clippy team member][clippy_team_members] in our [Zulip] chat
3. Comment on the corresponding Github issue (less preferrable as comments might be overlooked)

For now, let's imagine that your fellow developers at work tend to define some of their
functions with the name `foo` and forget to re-name it to a more meaningful name
when they submit a pull request.

`foo` is a highly non-descriptive name for a function, so we want to detect this
bad naming and fix it early on in the development process.

For this, we will create a lint that detects these `foo` functions and
help our fellow developers correct this bad practice. Note that in Clippy,
lints are generally written in snake cases.

> We can name this new lint `foo_functions`.

Reviewer 3: This is for example completely unnecessary in this section. Those subsections shouldn't contain story telling, but rather hard and cold facts about what has to be done to define a lint.

The story telling is nice for reading this documentation and has its place. But I think its place is what currently is the adding-lints section that goes through the process. I would still keep this chapter and include this story telling and creative writing. But those sub-sections should only be instructions on how to do things.

---

So this can be collapsed to

```
### Example

A lint that checks function names and will trigger on all functions named `foo` would be named `foo_functions`. 

/// Maybe add negative examples like `foo_function` here and explain why this name would not be chosen
```

> ## Add and Register the Lint

Reviewer 3: This chapter is a good example on how this part of the documentation should be written. Just an explanation for how the `cargo dev new_lint` is used and what the expected output is.

```

### Specific Type

If you believe that this new lint belong to a specific type of lints,
you can run `cargo dev new_lint` with a `--type` option.

Since our `foo_functions` lint is related to function calls, one could
argue that we should put it into a group of lints that detect some behaviors
of functions, we can put it in the `functions` group.

Let's run the following command in your Clippy project:

```sh
$ cargo dev new_lint --name=foo_functions --type=functions --category=pedantic
```

This command will create, among other things, a new file:
`clippy_lints/src/{type}/foo_functions.rs`.
In our case, the path will be `clippy_lints/src/functions/foo_functions.rs`.

Notice how this command has a `--type` flag instead of `--pass`. Unlike a standalone
definition, this lint won't be registered in the traditional sense. Instead, you will
call your lint from within the type's lint pass, found in `clippy_lints/src/{type}/mod.rs`.

A _type_ is just the name of a directory in `clippy_lints/src`, like `functions` in
the example command. Clippy groups together some lints that share common behaviors,
so if your lint falls into one, it would be best to add it to that type.

> Read more about [lint groups](#lint-groups) below.

Reviewer 3: This line is weird. You talk about types and then link the lint groups page?

  (use "git add <file>..." to update what will be committed)
  (use "git restore <file>..." to discard changes in working directory)
	modified:   CHANGELOG.md
	modified:   clippy_lints/src/functions/mod.rs
	modified:   clippy_lints/src/lib.register_lints.rs
	modified:   clippy_lints/src/lib.register_pedantic.rs
	modified:   src/docs.rs

Untracked files:
  (use "git add <file>..." to include in what will be committed)
	clippy_lints/src/functions/foo_functions.rs
	src/docs/foo_functions.txt
	tests/ui/foo_functions.rs
```

## Lint registration

If we run the `cargo dev new_lint` command for a new lint,
the lint will be automatically registered and there is nothing more to do.

However, sometimes we might want to declare a new lint by hand.
In this case, we'd use `cargo dev update_lints` command.

When `cargo dev update_lints` is used, we might need to register the lint pass
manually in the `register_plugins` function in `clippy_lints/src/lib.rs`:

```rust
store.register_early_pass(|| Box::new(foo_functions::FooFunctions));
```

As you might have guessed, where there's something early, there is something late:
in Clippy there is a `register_late_pass` method as well.

> More on early vs. late passes in a later chapter.

Reviewer 3: Please link the chapter.

Without a call to one of `register_early_pass` or `register_late_pass`,
the lint pass in question will not be run.

One reason that `cargo dev update_lints` does not automate this step is that
multiple lints might use the same lint pass, so registering the lint pass may
have already been done when adding a new lint.

Another reason for not automating this step is that the order
that the passes are registered determines the order the passes actually run,
which in turn affects the order that any emitted lints are output in.

> ## Lint groups

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Lint Types
```

As of the writing of this documentation update, there are 11 categories (a.k.a. _types_)
of lints besides the numerous standalone lints living under `clippy_lints/src/`:

- `cargo`
- `casts`
- `functions`
- `loops`
- `matches`
- `methods`
- `misc_early`
- `operators`
- `transmute`
- `types`
- `unit_types`

These categories group together lints that share some common behaviors.
For instance, as we have mentioned earlier, `functions` groups together lints
that deal with some aspects of function calls in Rust.

Some other common categories are `loops` and `methods`. `loops` group is for
lints that involve `for` loops, `while` loops, `range` loops, etc.

> `methods` group is for lints that target method calls.

Reviewer 3: I would just add for each type a short  one sentence explanation in the list above.
